README.md, before:

# Project-Development-3308
A software project developed for CSPB 3308


## Milestone 1: Project Proposal
Due: 10/2/25

Create a GitHub repository with all team members as collaborators
[Make sure to add access for the instructor(s)]

Create a README.md file for the repository and include the following:

**Project title:** "Quiz Game That Is Definitely Not Jeopardy"

**Team # 5**

**Team/Product Name:** Not Applicable

**Team members:** list the name, git username, and email for each member.
- Ebrahim Azarisooreh (ebaz7868, ebaz7868@colorado.edu)
- RJ Barrett
- Dalvin Contreras
- Rachel Mertz (RAMertz0630, rame4494@colorado.edu)
- Trent Rivers (trentbrivers, trri1737@colorado.edu
- Megan Yeung (meye7066, meye7066@colorado.edu)

**Day/Time/TimeZone for the scheduled team weekly meeting (30 minutes via Zoom):**
Saturdays, 10:00 AM MT

**Vision statement:** Want a fun way to play a trivia game asynchronously, against your friends? Want to compete against yourself and beat your best score? Come check out our new game platform!

**Motivation:** We’re a team with a diverse set of skills, backgrounds, and goals across the software development stack looking for a way to hone our skills without needing to go deep into the weeds of a specific domain.

**Risks to project completion, possibly including:**
- Project/Domain-specific risks
- Not as easy/intuitive to make smaller prototypes as some board games that we considered (e.g., tic-tac-toe -> checkers -> chess).

**All risks from the directions are relevant:**
- New language or working environment
- No prior experience working with these team members
- Lack of some needed resources

**Additional risks:**
Team members fully remote, distributed across 3 time zones, still hashing out our ways of working.

**Mitigation Strategy for above risks:**
- Modular project design we’ll start with basic features (few rounds, simple head-to-head, minimal data scraped to create a small database) and scale as we go.
- Avoid procrastination: start right away next week with basic features. 
- Already divided into areas of relative strength to get the first sprint off to a strong start:
DB: Rachel, RJ (float)
Back-end: Abe, RJ (float)
Front-end: Trent, Darvin, Megan

- Optimize for asynchronous communication: we already have a plan in place to handle schedule conflicts, briefing team members on missed standups as-needed.

**Development method:** Kanban, with scrum-style standups.
- Generally what happens is a group meets together for hours to discuss what are the most important priorities for the customer as well as the company. Technical and personnel requirements are reviewed along with preliminary estimates for time-to-completion and deadlines.
- After the initial planning is done, the team leads meet with developers, stories are fleshed out with a more accurate time assessment, and the sprints start.
- Standups should typically be around 15 minutes long, with any concerns about blocking issues brought up during meetings. In depth discussions about technical issues or implementation should not be discussed during standups, and one-on-one time should normally be scheduled for relevant team members for these scenarios.

**Project Tracking Software link:** Jira

Commit message:

Updated risks, mitigations and specifics of development method

README.md, after:

# Project-Development-3308
A software project developed for CSPB 3308


## Milestone 1: Project Proposal
Due: 10/2/25

Create a GitHub repository with all team members as collaborators
[Make sure to add access for the instructor(s)]

Create a README.md file for the repository and include the following:

**Project title:** "Quiz Game That Is Definitely Not Jeopardy"

**Team # 5**

**Team/Product Name:** Not Applicable

**Team members:** list the name, git username, and email for each member.
- Ebrahim Azarisooreh (ebaz7868, ebaz7868@colorado.edu)
- RJ Barrett (Roger-Barrett, roba5620@colorado.edu)
- Dalvin Contreras
- Rachel Mertz (RAMertz0630, rame4494@colorado.edu)
- Trent Rivers (trentbrivers, trri1737@colorado.edu
- Megan Yeung (meye7066, meye7066@colorado.edu)

**Day/Time/TimeZone for the scheduled team weekly meeting (30 minutes via Zoom):**
Saturdays, 10:00 AM MT

**Vision statement:** Want a fun way to play a trivia game asynchronously, against your friends? Want to compete against yourself and beat your best score? Come check out our new game platform!

**Motivation:** We’re a team with a diverse set of skills, backgrounds, and goals across the software development stack looking for a way to hone a variety of software development skills without needing to go deep into the weeds of a specific domain and are targeting a project whose scope can be scaled based on group progress. 

**Risks to project completion, possibly including:**
1. Underestimate of the difficulty involved -> More difficult to implement/prototype along the spectrum of board games that we considered (e.g., tic-tac-toe -> checkers -> chess) than we originally expected.
2. Unidentified integration challenges specifically
   - User interface interactions
   - Game Flow Logic
   - DB + BE integration
3.  New launguage(s) and working environment for most team members 

**All risks from the directions are relevant:**
1. No prior experience working with these team members.
2. Potential lack of some needed resources or unfamiliarity with finding or accessing
3. Less provided structure than some previous assignments/coursework

**Additional risks:**
1. Team members fully remote.
2. Distributed across 3 time zones which could complicate coordination. 
3. Still in the forming/storming phases of team development.

**Mitigation Strategy for above risks:**
1. Modular project design we’ll start with a basic features minimum viable product (few rounds, simple head-to-head, minimal data scraped to create a small database) and scale as we go.
2. Time investment early in the development for architecting the framework to identify potential integration challenges ahead of time. 
3. Avoid procrastination: start right away with basic features development and system architecting. 
4. Early and prompt communication of issues amongst the group. 
5. Already divided into areas of relative strength to get the first sprint off to a strong start:
    - DB: Rachel, RJ (float)
    - Back-end: Abe, RJ (float)
    - Front-end: Trent, Darvin, Megan
7. Backup time slot for meetings already identified: Friday evenings MT. 
8. Optimized for asynchronous communication: we already have a plan in place to handle schedule conflicts, briefing team members on missed standups as-needed.

**Development method:** Hybrid of Kanban, with scrum-style standups.
- Generally what happens is a group meets together for hours to discuss what are the most important priorities for the customer as well as the company. Technical and personnel requirements are reviewed along with preliminary estimates for time-to-completion and deadlines.
- After the initial planning is done, the team leads meet with developers, stories are fleshed out with a more accurate time assessment, and the sprints start.
- Standups should typically be around 15 minutes long, with any concerns about blocking issues brought up during meetings. In depth discussions about technical issues or implementation should not be discussed during standups, and one-on-one time should normally be scheduled for relevant team members for these scenarios.

- Structure of the weekly meetings
  - 15 Minute scrum-style standup/review of the past week of development
  - Discussion of important priorities and planning for the next week of development. Also includes discussion of technical and personnel requirements and time estimates. 
  - Review of due outs and planned weekly development/tasks

**Project Tracking Software link:** Jira
